and it came to pass in the month of
and it came to pass in the month of Nisan in the 20th year of King
Nisan in the 20th year of King
Nisan in the 20th year of King Artaxerxes when wine was before him that
Artaxerxes when wine was before him that
Artaxerxes when wine was before him that I took the wine and gave it to the king
now I had never been sad in his presence
now I had never been sad in his presence before therefore the king said to me why
before therefore the king said to me why
before therefore the king said to me why is your face sad since you are not sick
is your face sad since you are not sick
is your face sad since you are not sick this is nothing but sorrow of heart so I
this is nothing but sorrow of heart so I
this is nothing but sorrow of heart so I became dreadfully afraid and said to the
became dreadfully afraid and said to the
became dreadfully afraid and said to the king may the King live forever why
king may the King live forever why
king may the King live forever why should my face not be sad when the city
should my face not be sad when the city
should my face not be sad when the city that the place of my father's tombs lies
that the place of my father's tombs lies
that the place of my father's tombs lies waste and its gates are burned with fire
waste and its gates are burned with fire
waste and its gates are burned with fire what do you request so I prayed to the
what do you request so I prayed to the
what do you request so I prayed to the God of heaven and I said to the king if
God of heaven and I said to the king if
God of heaven and I said to the king if it pleases the King and if your servant
it pleases the King and if your servant
it pleases the King and if your servant has found favor in your sight I ask that
has found favor in your sight I ask that
has found favor in your sight I ask that you send me to Judah to the city of my
you send me to Judah to the city of my
you send me to Judah to the city of my father's tombs that I may rebuild it
father's tombs that I may rebuild it
father's tombs that I may rebuild it then the King said to me the Queen also
then the King said to me the Queen also
then the King said to me the Queen also sitting beside him how long will your
sitting beside him how long will your
sitting beside him how long will your journey be and when will you return so
journey be and when will you return so
journey be and when will you return so it pleased the king to send me and I set
it pleased the king to send me and I set
it pleased the king to send me and I set him a time
him a time
him a time furthermore I said to the king if it
furthermore I said to the king if it
furthermore I said to the king if it pleases the King let letters be given to
pleases the King let letters be given to
pleases the King let letters be given to me for the governors of the region
me for the governors of the region
me for the governors of the region beyond the river that they must permit
beyond the river that they must permit
beyond the river that they must permit me to pass through till I come to Judah
me to pass through till I come to Judah
me to pass through till I come to Judah and a letter to ACF the keeper of the
and a letter to ACF the keeper of the
and a letter to ACF the keeper of the Kings forest that he must give me timber
Kings forest that he must give me timber
Kings forest that he must give me timber to make beams for the gates of the
to make beams for the gates of the
to make beams for the gates of the Citadel which pertains to the temple for
Citadel which pertains to the temple for
Citadel which pertains to the temple for the city wall and for the house that I
the city wall and for the house that I
the city wall and for the house that I will occupy and the King granted them to
will occupy and the King granted them to
will occupy and the King granted them to me according to the good hand my god
me according to the good hand my god
me according to the good hand my god upon me then I went to the governor's in
upon me then I went to the governor's in
upon me then I went to the governor's in the region beyond the river and gave
the region beyond the river and gave
the region beyond the river and gave them the Kings letters now the King had
them the Kings letters now the King had
them the Kings letters now the King had sent captains of the army and horsemen
sent captains of the army and horsemen
sent captains of the army and horsemen with me when sanballat the Heron ID and
with me when sanballat the Heron ID and
with me when sanballat the Heron ID and tobiah the ammonite official heard of it
tobiah the ammonite official heard of it
tobiah the ammonite official heard of it they were deeply disturbed that a man
they were deeply disturbed that a man
they were deeply disturbed that a man had come to seek the well-being of the
had come to seek the well-being of the
had come to seek the well-being of the children of Israel so I came to
children of Israel so I came to
children of Israel so I came to Jerusalem and was there three days then
Jerusalem and was there three days then
Jerusalem and was there three days then I arose in the night
I arose in the night
I arose in the night I and a few men with me I told no one
I and a few men with me I told no one
I and a few men with me I told no one with my God had put in my heart to do at
with my God had put in my heart to do at
with my God had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem nor was there any animal with
Jerusalem nor was there any animal with
Jerusalem nor was there any animal with me except the one on which I rode and I
me except the one on which I rode and I
me except the one on which I rode and I went out by night through the valley
went out by night through the valley
went out by night through the valley gate to the serpent well and the refuse
gate to the serpent well and the refuse
gate to the serpent well and the refuse gate and viewed the walls of Jerusalem
gate and viewed the walls of Jerusalem
gate and viewed the walls of Jerusalem which were broken down and its gates
which were broken down and its gates
which were broken down and its gates which were burned with fire
which were burned with fire
which were burned with fire then I went on to the fountain gate into
then I went on to the fountain gate into
then I went on to the fountain gate into the Kings pool but there was no room for
the Kings pool but there was no room for
the Kings pool but there was no room for the animal under me to pass so I went up
the animal under me to pass so I went up
the animal under me to pass so I went up in the night by the valley and viewed
in the night by the valley and viewed
in the night by the valley and viewed the wall then I turned back and entered
the wall then I turned back and entered
the wall then I turned back and entered by the valley gate and so returned
and the officials did not know where I
and the officials did not know where I had gone or what I had done I had not
had gone or what I had done I had not
had gone or what I had done I had not yet told the Jews the priests the nobles
yet told the Jews the priests the nobles
yet told the Jews the priests the nobles the officials or the others who did the
the officials or the others who did the
the officials or the others who did the work then I said to them you see the
work then I said to them you see the
work then I said to them you see the distress that we are in how Jerusalem
distress that we are in how Jerusalem
distress that we are in how Jerusalem lies waste and its gates are burned with
lies waste and its gates are burned with
lies waste and its gates are burned with fire come let us build the wall of
fire come let us build the wall of
fire come let us build the wall of Jerusalem that we may no longer be a
Jerusalem that we may no longer be a
Jerusalem that we may no longer be a reproach and I told them of the hand of
reproach and I told them of the hand of
reproach and I told them of the hand of my god which had been good upon me and
my god which had been good upon me and
my god which had been good upon me and also of the king's words that he had
also of the king's words that he had
also of the king's words that he had spoken to me so they said let us rise up
spoken to me so they said let us rise up
spoken to me so they said let us rise up and build when they set their hands to
and build when they set their hands to
and build when they set their hands to this good work
this good work
this good work but when sanballat the annoyed to
but when sanballat the annoyed to
but when sanballat the annoyed to by the ammonite official and guess from
by the ammonite official and guess from
by the ammonite official and guess from the Arab heard of it they laughed at us
the Arab heard of it they laughed at us
the Arab heard of it they laughed at us and despised us what is this thing that
and despised us what is this thing that
and despised us what is this thing that you are doing will you rebel against the
you are doing will you rebel against the
you are doing will you rebel against the king so I answered them and said to them
king so I answered them and said to them
king so I answered them and said to them the god of heaven himself will prosper
the god of heaven himself will prosper
the god of heaven himself will prosper us therefore we his servants will arise
us therefore we his servants will arise
us therefore we his servants will arise and build but you have no heritage or
and build but you have no heritage or
and build but you have no heritage or right or memorial in Jerusalem